These days, information is in so
many places at once.
As a result, organizations are under
a lot of pressure to implement effective
security controls that protects everyone's
information from being stolen or exposed.
Security controls are safeguards designed
to reduce specific security risks.
They include a wide range of tools that
protect assets before, during, and
after an event.
Security controls can be
organized into three types:
technical, operational, and managerial.
Technical control types include the many
technologies used to protect assets.
This includes encryption,
authentication systems, and others.
Operational controls relate to maintaining
the day-to-day security environment.
Generally, people perform these
controls like awareness training and
incident response.
Managerial controls are centered
around how the other two reduce risk.
Examples of management controls include
policies, standards, and procedures.
Typically, organization's security policy
outlines the controls needed to achieve their goals.
Information privacy plays
a key role in these decisions.
Information privacy is the protection
of unauthorized access and
distribution of data.
Information privacy is
about the right to choose.
People and organizations alike deserve
the right to decide when, how, and
to what extent private
information about them is shared.
Security controls are the technologies
used to regulate information privacy.
For example, imagine using
a travel app to book a flight.
You might browse through a list of
flights and find one at a good price.
To reserve a seat, you enter some personal
information, like your name, email, and
credit card number for payment.
The transaction goes through successfully,
and you booked your flight.
Now, you reasonably expect
the airline company to access this
information you enter when signing
up to complete the reservation.
However, should everyone at the company
have access to your information?
A person working in the marketing
department shouldn't need access
to your credit card information.
It makes sense to share that information
with a customer support agent.
Except, they should only need to access
it while helping with your reservation.
To maintain privacy,
security controls are intended to limit
access based on the user and situation.
This is known as the principle
of least privilege.
Security controls should be designed with
the principle of least privilege in mind.
When they are, they rely on
differentiating between data owners and
data custodians.
A data owner is a person who decides
who can access, edit, use, or
destroy their information.
The idea is very straightforward except
in cases where there are multiple owners.
For example, the intellectual
property of an organization can have
multiple data owners.
A data custodian is anyone or
anything that's responsible for
the safe handling,
transport, and storage of information.
Did you notice that I mentioned, "anything?"
That's because, aside from people,
organizations and
their systems are also custodians
of people's information.
There are other considerations besides
these when implementing security controls.
Remember that data is an asset.
Like any other asset, information privacy
requires proper classification and
handling.
As we progress in this section,
we'll continue exploring other security
controls that make this possible.